# I respect myself first
I respect myself first. For myself I am law; I am the city that I rule. If, as you utter these words, you feel that you're lying: Identify the voice in you whose respect you must earn: or no: the voice who *wills that you earn your own respect*. Be grateful that you do call yourself on your own shit -- you have the gift of self-regulation. 

# Healthy self-correction
Self-mockery as the birth of delusion. "Cognitive dissonance." Etymology of delusion. Self-deprecation only funny when everybody dripping with irony. Etymology of hipocrisy (hypokrinesthai - to play a part, theatrically). To know oneself as an actor. To desperately cling to a hope is to pity one's own reality. To pity one's hope instead! The voice informing myself of the distance between hope and reality -- does it want anything? Is it not "satan", my own adversary? Whether it believes in me or not is not the importance of its role -- it only grows more aggressive as my pity inflames. The pitiful have recourse to priests, whose judgment stands in for my own -- my own satan is alienated from me. My adversary rightfully charges me with the responsibility over my habitation, and therefore, ability. The voice has a vested interest in my increased ability, for I am its life. What faith in my power, as a moral agent, does the voice unwaveringly affirm! How else would it be possible that the voice informs me with the awareness of my distance from my ideal? While both I and my adversary know the distance, it will not permit its repression. If I repress this voice, it will return with an intensity and charge that it will force me, eventually, to take it on -- but it is no warrior, nor a sergeant! It will not waste precious time fighting me -- it is only there to turn *me* into the warrior. The pitiful one as the fearful one: split in two. The warrior as the splitter: duellum. 

# Boundless Morale: "Take extreme ownership.", eradicate pity, approve of myself, have faith (Job, V.Frankl), and renew morale.
Jocko Willinck: "Take extreme ownership." When you make a mistake, own it as your doing. Don't dare to beat yourself up, however--this has tethered Catholics to their confession booths and Freudians to their couches alike. No one but me can interpret the messages of my conscience; here is the origin of my morality. I grin with the dignity of ownership. I honor my will as a causal force, and my self as a moral agent. I have the joy of aggressing (ad-gredi) my goal.  "Grin and bear it." Do not pity yourself: it will make of you a patient (pathos). Don't whore your self out for the nobility of your animal response to suffering. The greatest suffering is senseless, and entirely devoid of meaning. For many, it is a proof that God does not exist, for others: it is proof of the value of faith. Suffering is the negative of faith; Job as lacking faith by believing in God via rewards. Miracles do not convince. Viktor Frankl's introduction in the Unconscious God. It is a negative capacity which responds to suffering. This is our only meaning for it. To increase morale is necessarily ecological and political. Never take opposition to your morality personally, and do not pity those who do not take it. Not only can you not take it upon yourself to recruit everybody, not everybody wants to join the military. But for those who know it's a hell: why do you desire to return?

# Lift weights
To sustain failure. Strength is nothing but voluntary persistence in weakness. Etymology of debility - de habitus (We are weak because we're not used to it). Ability: having a habit. Animals are able, in proportion with their habitat. When I become master of my law, I become ecologist: creator of my habitat. I am only the amount of energy which I demand from myself. Man, as organic, is an emergent pattern in the universe, a flux, a pattern of oscillation. How many beings could I be?

# Know my place in the cosmos
To look at the stars like I were the first man to do so. I name them for myself. I create a new constellation. My law rules the heavens. In Genesis, God doesn't teach Adam the names of the animals: he tells Adam to name them himself. Pedagogy is from one man to a paidos (slave/boy). 

# Permit myself to refuse 'connecting' on the level of cliche
Cliche is awareness that language has meaning, separate from intention. Deception is delight in this awareness. Nihilism is to intepret no contradiction of this sort as remarkable, *valuable*. For those who use cliche, deception, or haplessness: they infer their power from circumstance. This is why it is imperative not to use or be subject to cliche -- to be spontaneous.

# The choice of Socrates
Be exiled, or be assassinated by the state, and make philosophy immortal. GGWP. Who lived longer: the gods of the city, or Socrates? Even God is dead. 
