# Need money, need jobs
My resume is not appealing to employers; every single position I've applied for, including explicily entry-level positions, haven't contacted me. People don't get the right impression of my adequacy. So what I could do is refer them to a website, a github page, or another online application which shows them the things I've built which I'm proud of. It's a virtual resume. Do you want a machine built which will optimize your business? Well, I don't even have the machine built which would optimize mine, but I know its parts. I ahven't assembled it. So once I do this for my cannabis growing operation, and specify why it works the way it does, I'll be able to show others that I could do the same for them. I always want to build AI robots -- the Jetson Nano was purchased for this reason. A car would be a little nifty, but I think it would be far more useful to have a mobile image-classifier which can, for example, recognize a customer when they show up to buy coffee from my cart, and my employee sees all of the things which they've ordered in the past, if the customer gives their consent to enroll in the program, which *must give them benefits for the invasion of security and privacy* which a facial recognition and association machine makes. It's a virtual implementation of a good sales practice -- know what your customer likes. On the other hand, businesses have credit card names as identifiers, which track their purchase histories -- these can be used for drawing inferences about identified people. Then we get to work determining their taste, which is the relationship between classes of sale-objects they've purchased.

# Eavesdropping for hypotheses
Sometimes people say: "I'd buy it if I had more money." So we set our price lower for a time. Return customers would be happy about this, but it's not exactly profitable to make a customer certain kinds of happy/satisfied/thrilled-at-a-deal. If we just make an expensive item cheaper, then we lose our profit. But! if there are items which people often tend to get in combination with other items, then we would obviously want to drop the prices of these, since this leaves the person with a smaller dent, a better opinion, and the power and inclination to buy more items. So 'combo items' should go through some price-changes. Only drop the pricey stuff if it doesn't sell. This is just one way of applying an eavesdropped remark to the context of the null hypothesis--let's get some data and see if you guys will actually tend to buy more items! There are many suggestions which a business-owner will overhear, and never implement. Why? The attitude which a businessman has towards the future is improving the status quo. Since implementation of a new practice necessarily costs effort-time and imagination, the future reward is projected to be far-off and meager, especially: "when the business already works..." There are two ways that this opinion can be arrived at, and one is lazy, and the other is cautious. The degree of resolution in the imagination of the future circumstance is the only of telling whether it is cautious or lazy. If the businessman utters the above refrain, he's likely only to be considering the maintenance of the status quo which he has observed meets his needs as entering into what work he has to do. The more this work is consigned to fortune or fate ("we've had a rough couple of months. Yeah, again. No, this is not seasonal!!!!!!!"), the worse will his responsiveness to the market be. 


# Learning from Amazon: ML, statistical inference
Amazon has taught us all that the most successful companies have sophisticated statistical inferences. Python makes the implementation of ML models easy for me -- I don't have to build classifiers or regressors, or any tools from scratch. I have a lot to learn as far as the underpinnings of statistical inference, and what form the associations have; but I can consult a ML book for the beginnings of this. I haven't applied myself to becoming a master at ML, but now I will -- it's too valuable a skill to have, and makes me eminently employable. The proper implementation of neural networks, and statistical inference models gives a reproduction of the human experience of nature. We attain concepts that Kantian schemas fix only after learning, which is a combination of apperception and association and imagination with respect to constructed ideas which bind together sense-impressions. ML seems to do something practically equivalent, in that the self-identity of a thing whatever can be 
