# Rot

Am I rotting?
I notice my face swelling.
I feel less beautiful.
My grandmother annoys me, bless her heart.
My father is sad; no one likes it.
But the family's his ocean and we ripple appropriately.
I eddy a bit, more drawn to the grass on the banks.
(He did lose a gig to a false positive, of all things.)
For shame.

I'm a regular Hippolyte, justifying statistical pragmatism.
Doing right, doing wrong... useless crap statistically.
Statistics can't organize the drives like morality can.
"Pride is higher than pity."
What, other than beauty, can be used as a test statistic?
"Those who have this morality, tend, on average, to be more beautiful."
Pure idiocy.
And yet, we model the beautiful -- wherever we don't resent them.

Adulation is also stupid.
Being a fighter at heart, and a civilized brat in this century, I wonder what I should direct myself to be.
I hate losing, yet love the idea of fighting to injury, to death, to be taught a lesson, to be humbled.
Good for me that I've found my paradox -- total hubris and humility.
Beware that it's not cowardice.

I do have Catholic sensibilities.
Are mores epigenetic?
Is history but a costume?
Sometimes it feels like historical ideas graft onto DNA.
"Fits a slot."
Ok, but where are the eide?
Why are we agreed on our unassailable convictions?
Unassailable because they are a complex prior to us which can't be examined.
Not even by drugs.
Youthful belief of seeing behind, beyond what mere mortals experience, via drugs.
"Que nous donnent plutot un peu de savoir." - Henri Michaux - Connaissance par les gouffres
Not to say that drugs are nothing.
Drugs are an extension of what is already released in other forms, in the festival.
We are too prudish to release what the drugs do. 
Society is too sterile -- the intentionalities need repression -- everyone loves repression, loves cruelty.
But nobody tolerates being cruel.
To be able to tolerate our sins without shuddering, cringing, recoilining -- but worst of all -- shriveling.

Drugs give us the release with a clear conscience. 
Fuck purity -- we don't have a less-clear conscience becaue of our impurity.
As soon as a 13-year-old orgasms for the first time, he's decided on that fact.
Or a 10-year-old, for Christs' sake.
So we're unpure as soon as we appear -- before our bar mitzvah.
Before we are induced into a tradition of interpretation.
Before we accept responsibility for our critical motives, by reading the story of *our* interest in the Torah.
Naturally, this is one way -- but no other religion does this. 
Judaim falls on deaf ears.
God forbid I drive it home like:
"The philosophy of the Jews falls on deaf ears."

In any case -- we have a clear conscience when we do psychonautics via drugs because we are possessed by it.
So long as we are in control of our conduct, we have a clear conscience.
We hate the hobo on meth who strikes a girl at brunch, just as much as the same girl being a whore under pretenses of being too drunk.
No one denies the reality of the intentional complex that the drug user is when he's high: "he's high."
Never mind that people *say* stupid shit -- they know they would *feel* just like him if they did the same drugs.
Hell, they scoff at the hobo outside of the bar they're entering.
And all drunk people look and act the same. 
Especially those who've been drinking for years.
So naturally there are drug-communities. 
The bars for meth are on the streets and in tents.
The suppliers are not wineries, or breweries, or distilleries, but cartel chemists.
No one knows what they're feeding, or getting into, or voting for. 
Democracy h has libidinal, economic problems in this sense -- we can't investigate *who* is voting, for what.
The intentionalities which create these communities, habitats, conditions of being -- do they have a voice?

But there are funny uses of language here that are revealing, for those who are creating a drug habitat.
Addicts say they can quit any time.
They say they hear voices, as if they're assuaged? 
assailed by demons (absolution, my thesis)
but they never say that a voice told them to buy drugs, or get more -- because they feel guilty that it's *their* voice. 
We identify with this intentionality -- why use speech to say that we can quit any time?
Yes -- we, we drug-users, we druggies, we wanters, we complex systems ready to explode, ready to be channeled, contorted, re-configured
And we as rational actors who occasion it all.
Lol.
There's your pragmatism right there.
The bare bones of rationale?
the addict's strategy whatever to get more drugs
Suppliant? Works
Hold guitar in Nashville, NC?
Idk, didn't stay long enough.

And I don't care about Peirce -- he was broke.
He was an addict, too -- almost too terse to be funny.
Almost too droll to be clever.
Why is the reverse of the dictum de omni so hard to understand?
Because I didn't crack it open the right way.
A predicate's universal when there's nothing in the subject which would not also be referred to the ...
I can't remember -- and I'm sure it's important.
The problem with the important, is that it eludes me.
It's always outside.
Am I to be a storage house, a halfway home for the sordid complaints of philosophers?
What contract do I have with the stork network of philosophers' bastards?
Is this a subscription-based model?
Is this why I'm broke?

No -- I'm broke because I don't make money.
So why am I focusing on Peirce?
We've got bigger fish to fry.

I think we should say pragmatism, or pragmaticism, does not help someone to conceive of things in a fuller way.
It's dumb plain that the better your conception is, the more you can anticipate
But how to improve the conception, enliven it, make it interesting, inspire yourself to think of another, yet another, and a contrary, an objection?
Ithis is an economical concern.
Mnage your house.
We're planning on going hunting tomorrow.
Tonight it is cold.
Did we bring in firewood?
Who is cooking tonight?
Nothing to cook?
Jim! That's your job.


The whole meaning of tasks and rationale is economical.
There are people to blame, hold accountable, etc. 
For the event must happen at the appointed time. 
Or does no one tink about dinner until the hour thereof?
Only children do it that way.
We children are surprised at the hour of dinner.
Or we tell mommy we're hungry and get a little sugar snack, and eat nothing at dinner.
I am 27.
I am 27.
I am 27.

I am broke.
I want to eddy.
Is the grass green or err....
I err.
I stray.
Strange starin I am, of water preferring dirt

If only my investment and ROI in fate could be so lucid.

I have to make something of myself.
Just like the drug addict.
I have to have what I need.

Rationality is just that.
Peirce needed to keep writing.
So we do what we're addicted to, and nothing more.

If we're addicted to giving value, that's what we will do. 
If we're addicted to getting money, it's what we'll do.
Why fight uphill?
Only addicts can fight uphill to ride the sled all the way down to rock bottom.
Guess who's an addict?
Man.
Homo addictus.

If an addict is the essential form all men take after subjecting themselves to alll the unique vistas,
after becoming each of the complexes that the drugs demand of them,
---------- if the form is the addict,
then this is man himself.

This is the irreducible animal of man.

It is not sad, it is nature.
What is sad is that the addict could be addicted to himself.

But I fall on deaf ears.
And good.
God forbid anyone has the attention span to think at my pace.
These are the intions (integer-ienai???) I have had to bring to bear to the document in time.

How odd to think of electronical (ienai) excahnges to make that this is recorded now.
Shannon, or whatever. 
Maxwell's Demon, or whatever.

I don't know what the fuck I'm talking about.
I don't recognize what I'm groping after. 

I just need to get laid. 
This has been a 'necessity' for quite some time


So to troubleshoot -- be able to be guilted -- be able to be possessed

To be always so cool and carefree to avoid the stress betrays a weakness.
It suggests that the stress of other affects is too much to overwhelm the current affects. 
But beware: there is a power that is permitting the stress to subside.
How tyrannical!
To always prefer docility betrays an immense will to power. 
It's simply in the dark.
But how should I judgge such a will.

WIth adoration, of course.
With gratitude, pride.
I'm proud that I am that strong.
That's why I love the handicapping -- why I love how Guts fights against Serpico.
But I also love how Serpico rigs the fights -- knowing his strength clearly. 
He still dares to fight Guts -- but on his terms.
Guts is not mindless. He is mind.He is clever.
And the way he fights as the wolf is oto brutal  and visceral and efficient -- all of the words fail to chill me like the image of the berserker
rolling along the snout of some gargantuan beast with his blade always driving through the flesh-trudging somersault

So my power is my restraint
Some power to not wet the bed
Or to die of toxic shock or constipation

My power is my ability to permit my paresse to overome my lust to get up and do jumping jacks
(EDIT: To restrain my lust to... Restraint of voluptuousness is more ambitious than the volupte)
But then again paresse thinks that it is the virtue -- Where is this in La Rochefoucauld?
Read it as we were going to the superbowl watch party at Billy's, where I then tried to make lascivious eye contact with Cara on a fleeting, romantic basis.
It may have worked, but only to imprison me
What strategy is this?
Just fuck her or not.

I feel in the moment that if I'm not in love, I don't care that my 'girlfriend' should hurt me if she fucks someone else
How can you add insult to injury if insult is inslut? 
It's just a subtraction.
Getting even does hurt, though, but two negatives make a positive.
slut power is saying ' I fucked him. '
Whore-tactic to say "But he fucked me!"
Lol. When girls say "I fucked". You lay there -- I can guarantee you starfished for the majority of the time.

Women are nothing more than magnets. 

The nice action at a distance ("but this requires -- distance.") in The Gay Science.
also his thought that they make men feel clumsy, make them (fetish, artifice, loom-weaving) bumbling idiots.
And seemingly arbitrarily, but wherever they can, like Aunt Laura and my poor Uncle Mark, his penis shackled with wine,
and his Alzeihemer held hostage -- or is it that whine is having his dick hold his Alzeihemer's hostage? 
Just work out, whores.
Anyway, the other form of action at a distance which makes David Deida's dumb-ass supposition that man is the observer and woman the performer,
is that woman gets man to do things at a distance. 
(It's actually not so stupid -- it's just stupid to think it's natural for men to sit there and jack off.)
(Webcams are weird -- cash-funnels because you can't touch. Other horny or desensitized bouncers ensure "You can look, but don't touch.")
Woman is a motivator, a doer.
Women don't want to fuck -- they want to be fucked.
They love getting fucked in the mirror -- watching how they can't help their face get contorted as etc....
A whole sexy vertigo of vanity

The perversity of a man getting whipped is just that he doesn't realize woman is the whip.
Woman's the whip that loves to get thrashed around.
She literally doesn't know how to handle herself.
And the women who do are good at like one thing, and then have a bad love life?
"Handle me better than I do."
"Give some order, motive to my flailing."

How's that for purport, Peirce. (It seems like I have somthing against him -- I would come with a case, trust.)
Homie was probably at his best when he was cheating on his wife.
Those were probably some fire-ass lectures in that era.
Ni modo.

Well -- I somehow ended up on something that would take away from my steam

I would need to satisfy it with an actual steamy body

To overcome the arbiter
Overcome restraint
Give the command to the whimsical
(NO - not quite it, that is) 
Let whim loose
Slacken as whim's loose
Sinews lengthen

Just try explaining a poem as you're making it
I have prose flash through my mind
I can't help it
Knead it out with less aggression than abandoned in the kitchen
you would a doomed cake
