# Original
Time is wasted, pondering the simple reality that morale and pain/pleasure have no causal relation, but only a contrapuntal one. Control over morale is in no way related to the for-granted justification of suffering. That speech-time is used to justify suffering and give it meaning, infuse it with meaning. Morale is a physiological reality not solely governed by the phantasms which speech can produce, nor the ideological beliefs which derive from such phantasms.

# 03/07/21 dd-mm-yy
How should I *speak* of the purpose I find in living, if the true purpose I feel is nameless and unapprehended by reason? My greatest moments of purpose arrive with terror: a crashing wave, a well-timed, fleeting bird-omen. I laugh before I get the joke. Rather, precisely because I don't get the joke -- the diaphragm as the limits of spirit. Pneuma, nous. Spira, spirit, esprit. To speak awareness of the joke is be as innocent as a child -- we should esteem our reason no more than the child's. We can be sure, on the other hand, that our diaphragm is weaker. Faith resembles always a surrender of reason to the organic which defies laws (this "defiance" in Phenomenology of Spirit-C.AA.Reason). Reason is not the highest faculty, and I don't see Descartes as pronouncing this. Who else must be contested on this point, if they did not advance the application of reason in philosophy to the degree that he did? Leibniz's praise of Descartes. For man to be proud of reason is for man to become ugly -- it canot be put more simply. Reason's selfsameness nullifies and cheapens the complex which is a living being -- to subject everything to reason is no problem. Yet to subject ourselves to it as supreme judge/arbiter is the instatement of magnetic monopoles in philosophy. Kant's "courtroom drama" of the Critique of Pure Reason develops much better than this. TODO: (HOW?)

Morale, for me, is "Tu tremblez, carcasse? Tu tremblerais bien d'avantage si tu saurais ou je te mene." To speak suffering is to subjugate reason to suffering, which is the pre-Stoic consciousness. To speak independence of mind is to hover over our energies, emanicipated. To speak skepticism is to subjugate ourselves fully to desire and work as our emancipation -- for only rejection and work can manifest something irrefutable in our independence of mind. But to speak faith 

What meaning does bad morale have? ("What meaning does it not have?" Does this mean what meaning it excludes? I think of Godel naively.)
