# musings
Helping myself get the relation between experience and science straight

# What is an expert, and why does the entrepreneur need him?

Anyone who wants to get business done today will employ skilled laborers, to ensure both quality, and timely completion of his project. Since all skill is the insulation of neuronal pathways by a myelin sheath, all skilled laborers are chosen for their particular configuration of myelin. Since myelin takes a great deal of time to build, the entrepreneur is justified in saying he "doesn't have the time" to build it. His role in bringing the project to completion lies instead in envisioning the requisite steps for the project's completion. For this, he must identify the operands which the operators (skilled laborers) are to work on, and then to contract them at a price acceptable to him. In some sense, it is by this reliance alone that one can be expect to do business in a timely manner. The entrepreneur pays the laborer a wage, and for it the laborer redeems the pragmatic import of his sophistication.

# Atlases | The men who do everything themselves

There's another species of man, however, who does everything required to bring the project to completion himself -- one who learns on the job. This man, because he loses time and turnaround, is supposed to subject himself to such an exacting approach only because he lacks the capital to employ others. Alternatively, he is viewed as a hobbyist. Assuming the former: If in a conversation with the entrepreneur, he might rightfully be asked: "So you want me to become an electrician, just for this project? When will I ever use that again?" It's out of wounded pride that Atlas here would say "I plan to do it again, and I'll be better the next time," because it's an answer poorly considered. Does this man see this approach as dignified, or superior to the approach of the entrepreneur's? He must know that the entrepreneur is getting stuff done quickly -- perhaps dozens of projects like his own, all around town. This jealousy eats up the Atlas. It seems to be out of stubborn, boorish ignorance that he continues his sub-optimal method, if not out of his definite, uncompromising resolve to fulfill what he has set out to do. In either case, the man waits for experience to furnish him with the necessary insights to improve his skill and station -- and thereby, his fortune. 

# That quality the expert has in common with a machine, of which Atlases are wanting

Viewed from its most general standpoint, it is *a* (any) nervous system which is performing "the welding." (Substitute any act which requires a degree both of caution and technical proficiency). "Yes, and all of these nervous systems have the skill/myelin to appropriately..." Anyone responding like this has to answer: Is the automaton a welder? Or an electrician? No: the machine operates according to quantitative criteria; it is simply following a recipe. The recipe has it perform the designated output of a conditional statement. "If this hot, to activate..." Can this "judgment" of the machine be rightfully said to differ at all from the judgment of the skilled laborer, if the products brought about are identical? In the way that the "judgment" is brought to bear upon the material at hand: no. The two products are materially interchangeable. The salient fact here is that the automaton's program stands in for the savant's myelin. When the analogy is drawn between skilled laborer and automaton like this, the common, mediated quality is the criteria they share for performing appropriate actions -- quantitative in the case of the machine, intuitive in the case of the savant. Since the skilled laborer judges intuitively, in terms of qualities and not quantities, the analogy seems to fit quite poorly to him. But such a man must sit with himself and really puzzle over the possibility of being replaced with a machine. "How could it be that a machine can do exactly what I've learned to do, over years of experience?"

# The language of physics as mediator between the automaton and skilled laborer

The language of physics is sufficient to articulate what an agent has to do, in respect of altering mathematical identities, to get the product desired. After all, the entire meaning of the science of physics is that it quantifies causes, and in so doing, enables a chain of inference from quantified cause to quantified effect, whose only meaning is empirical.
An awareness of this possibility to articulate what is *generally required* by *any* laborer whatsoever would increase the efficiency of the entrepreneur. This would be accomplished by formally articulating the operands in terms of their quantitative requirements. What material can withstand this vector we anticipate will be quite common over the structure's lifetime? Does this not seem to be the discipline of engineering? If it is possible for the entrepreneur to do this with all operands, it must be possible for the Atlas to do this as well, as science belongs to neither of their skillsets, and is instead brought to bear upon them. Viewed from this perspective, does the Atlas need experience? Or must he simply follow the recipe?
