# Devotion, ardor 
What can be attributed to other's faults, and not the problem of nobility: or, the problem of self-sacrifice. Preference for burning "nobly" is ugly when transmuted into indignation, whose instruments are vouchers and history. So is there such a thing as being noble in love? It'd have to be an element of our mutual, silent dignity, far beyond what an individual can lay claim to: any true nobility of the heart is awesome.

I spoke of 'safety of devotion' to a married couple and was misunderstood -- go figure. Thought of a need for one to misunderstand; oh how very fragile we might be. Very hard to determine my maturity since I am teased and never tease. Just let others sound simple. 

# What am I supposed to be doing about jealousy?
At this point in my life I am not *earnestly* romantic. When I am devotional it is affected and quaint. "Many wouldn't be amorous had they never heard talk of love." This appeals in no way to a living creature. What life is there to be found in it, when everything that sex wants to be verges on abuse, domination, control, subjugation, release, submersion, absolution, purification, (after all). Therefore sex should direct the relationship, and not be the fuel-source of a stilted schema of devotion. About the "currency" of a relationship: rituals of devotion are coined, since a "unified currency" is a ridiculous romantic concept; even prostitution for example is an inverse joke played on the prostitute, that she would give her purse for this coin. Or that one should earn another's love.

# Digression on conviction, resentment, station
Who are the people who beleve this? It seems natural to think of love as a blessing; it follows the ones who believe that they should earn it think of themselves as damned -- their vengeance and arrogance (ressentiment) comes from thinking of themselves as ugly. There are a lot of ways of approaching our ugliness, most of which are actually *useless* to us. I have a right to the utility of thoughts, unlike the way that I had been educated: (as though I were fit to judge! Judgment requiring great preparation, and perhaps even a miracle. The conditions for good criticism have emerged as an unconscious principle which I now always maintain, thanks to what had practically amounted to a paranoia for some years.) It doesn't matter whether others don't see well what is useful and what is not. And how is one to wisely admit that one is ugly? Any and all wise self-admissions are made in good wit -- since we are so necessarily foolish, we must flatter ourselves as to the extent that we masterfully render our stupidity. The irony of attributing to a Shakespeare "genius", when rather we should be the "genii" in our ignorance. Of course, for genius: nerve, temper, cleverness.

# That we will inevitably rely upon ourselves
In the final case -- we will find that we have relied on ourselves quite admirably. When our car breaks down in between states, and the night is closing in, and it's too dark to see the engine, and there aren't services for miles... You rely on yourself to provide a solution. The mind will not tolerate this failure once it knows the stakes. Thinking without stakes is a sin. The mind works best when times are desperate. Only the mind can supply the calm that the rest of the body requires to operate well. In fact, the mind, and specifically the power of analogy, might have been spurred to attain its heights (as a faculty and not yet science-body) in happy combination with the greatest suffering, madness, and desperation. It's hard to say what elpis/hope, or 'the odds' are, since the lucid audacity of the mind seems to be entirely at odds with likelihood, chance, tendency. We sleep on our poetic power. Yet we find in the final case that this is the only given, the only firm ground. 

# Does it fit me to be jealous? 
Well, yes -- since I want what's beautiful, and will rely upon myself to attain it. No me queda otra. Envy is the tantrum of self-reliance -- this is what makes it ugly. Such misdirected power...
