Reading Leaves of Grass. This does not speak for itself. I thought the petry was going to be trite and over-sentimental. Instead I encounter a rich, broad spirit, not moved by the discovery of atomism, but instead embracing it as the principle of unification which America's poet-souls require. I think myself capable of tasks which Whitman had set for us. I'm gonna do my own thing, since he was too skilled to miss his mark, and I'm not sated. What I do admire is finding ease, necessity, beauty, to all be one.

# Cannabis
Does the use of Cannabis retard my progress and productivity? The joy of my work? I think of myself as mulish when I do work high. I lack the ease and suppleness which only comes from sober thinking. I miss the clarity which I was beginning to regain in Acapulco. The benefits of Cannabis do not compensate for my estrangement from my faculties. I feel myself distanced from the psychic qualities which were my adoration, curiosity, love of life. I harbor shame for being honest, trait which Cannabis doesn't modulate favorably. My words fail me, and I notice my lack of control above all else, a total lack of articulation. I feel that at this stage, Opium would be truer, as far as the ensuing behavior, and desire for oblivion. Only someone overly ambitious with years of dissatisfaction with Cannabis can think of it as a gateway drug to truer sedatives. But obviously my soul's more graceful. My soul likes to be recognized by my faculties of speech, which means that the pride in my soul is pride in an other, far happier and calmer than I. I do not feel our camaraderie at this stage in time. I hardly feel any joy in being high -- it's only a too-habitual disorientation at this point; by this constant unbalancing I have neither equity with my soul or "pharma". I enjoyed the sensation of my voluntary power when I met Ari -- everything ensuing has been a disappointment and disaster, and it's not as though cannabis has helped. I think my spirit has overgrown it, and I'm in search of new things, which I was too weak to seek out earlier. I'm certainly stunded, in this parallel universe of myself, compared to the one who I imagine off in some other plane of existence, making me proud with his candor and demeanor. The honor we have for each other makes us both better, but I grow like a late crop -- If the patience of my angels could be tested, how would it come to me? Who is I receiving the report, if all of I is the angel, like a mobius strip -- ever-receding, ever-unified, ever-returning...Then perfection means the least estrangement from the angel. Cannabis as of now, is estrangement from the angel, especially in the disruption of my work. I do have to prize my sober thinking, and not depend upon my clarity *in spite of* intoxication. At this point, mes talons commencent a se diriger en avant. (And this, due to my pharma). 

# Health, goals
It's not embarrassing to fail at a goal, because we are not perfected but through work. Some practice better than others, and are superior by their desire, focus, determination. In short -- their struggle. There is no unique substance from which a goal can be fashioned -- all rely upon the power of the imagination to be controlled by the will, which is articulable. Articulable will captivates the imagination to bring to nervous sensation the proprioceptive impressions synchronized with success of work.
The more I brave embarrassment, the more magnanimous I feel.
Virtue is vice's surrender to the will.
Virtue is obedience to self-cruelty.
Vice is the slackening of virtue, the ignorance of the will's dignity in submitting. A high woman can kill a man with the play of her eyes alone.

#Only Fans
How about we don't get one!

# Powder press
How about we get one!

# Microscope
One of these too!
