# Notes on Jung's Psychological Types 

Heinrich quote states that there are two natures, the Platonic and the Aristotelian.
They are opposed to one another, and have always been.
The Christian Church, however, incorporated the two natures.
He even claims that this distinction is the essential content of the Church.
The Platonic reveals ideas and symbols from the soul.
The Aristotelian is the ordering, the practical, and converts these ideas and symbols into a dogma and cult.
The Church embraces the two in itself.
The Aristotelians are sheltered in the clergy.
The Platonic ones find refuge in monasticism. (Lonesome, onesome, solitary, mono.)
(Hippocrates Apostle's claim on Aristotle's difference from Plato on the importance of the one. p.11 of the Introduction.)

## Details on Aristotle v. Plato, acc. Hippocrates Apostle 
From page 11 of his introduction to Aristotle's works:
"An important consequence of the above remarks [on the organization of the sciences] is the difference between PLato and Aristotle with respect to the number of principles of things as well as of scientific knowledge. Plato's first principles as understood by Aristotle are two, the *One* and the *Dyad*, and from these it is stated that the rest follow or are generated. As for scientific knowledge there is only one science, dialectic, and it is stated that the rest follow from or depend on dialectic; and since that knowledge is only of the unchanging, there can be no scientific knowledge of the physical world and hence no such science as physics. Aristotle regards Plato's principles as too simplistic and the reduction of all things to very few principles as impossible; and by introducing logic as necessary to science he shows that Plato destroys demonstration and science altogether, even his own science of Ideas."

## My critical retort, drawing from Aristotle's Ethics and anecdotes
How are we getting this? Through Platonic dialogues. Therefore there is no Platonic science that comes about apart from the dialogues, which are rife with contradictions, and are made in the context of his teacher's assassination. The Platonic science is a political science first. There can be no other meaning to his science. For example, Socrates speaks only at the beginning of the Timaeus, and never speaks after Timaeus has gotten going. The only possible meaning of this is that Socrates does not believe in dialectic, or its ability to help Timaeus get closer to knowledge, *even though he struggles with Meno on this account* -- or he thinks that dialectic is a science which is to be used in the development of character. This second account is far more plausible due to the way Plato stages the attraction Alcibiades has for Socrates. But then again, this may be Plato's implementation of the character Socrates had of "making the weaker argument stronger"; which is said to be revealed in Xenophon's Symposium (which I haven't read). I'll have to take the word of certain peers and tutors I respect that he does cleverly achieve this, and does not show this to a gentleman who comes asking for his help. But for more on this, we should just refer to the source in (Mrs. Dougherty.)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4w7Y3BsaLzk]

## Clarification of the intraverted and the extraverted

The former is the politically subtle; the latter establishes the possibility of a science. And please take the end of that sentence as an ignorant and incomplete one -- something may be aroused in the soul by such incompleteness. We might be motivated to make an account. But whether it's like the "city in speech," or like the account Timaeus gives? What about like the account Euthyphro gives, or like Crito gives? Which of these can properly be said to be an account? And what do Socrates's *actions* show? Certainly, the apo-logia is the clearest example of Socrates forcefully defending himself with his skills. But the way in which he argues in Phaedo and Crito, compared to the way that he acts, grows in its significance as one sees how Socrates's behavior changes with respect to each interlocutor. It's simply not meaningful to a student of two or three works of his. But this is exactly the cleverness of the Platonic method of teaching. Most philosophers have not had the patience of studying Socrates's behavior. Many do not even make explicit their impression of him having a cipher, or being one. There are also complications with his commitment to dialectic, whose poles of protagonism and ambivalence are most clearly displayed in Meno and Timaeus, respectively. Plato's Socrates is rife with contradictions, which are not even concealed on a superficial level; how can Hippocrates Apostle have a deeper assessment of what Plato actually believed? How can anyone expose Plato's dogma? It doesn't appear that the value of Plato's works, or even his motive and intent in composing them, was to stage his convictions. Much less, a claim that dialectic was the only science. Why does Socrates spend time listening to Timaeus? Why does Socrates use the paidion in the Meno? These are definitely the recognition of a different art. But what might be too subtle for certain readers, is Plato's implicit arguments. For example, the stage directions. Why is Socrates underneath the shade of the platonos tree in the Phaedrus when he exposes himself "shamefully"? Why is Socrates silent during the Timaeus? Contradiction would be a necessary element of the science of dialectic. Naturally, however, contradiction does not play a role in the other sciences; it is a lack of thoroughness, and an unacceptable incompleteness. One can attain the result. Such is the basis of the zetetic method, which Aristotle employs. (Refer to the footrace example; where the judges should be in the Ethics, Book I. Is it after the "'tis our duty to prefer the truth.' -Rackham"? But anyway, he asks whether the judges should be at the start or at the end. The answer is obvious after very little practical thought: who cares if they started well if we don't know who arrived first? The race stretches along so far that the winner's just as small as the losers. ) the word Apostle has in mind is episteme -- What kind of knowledge is dialectic capable of giving, when it always confounds its interlocutors? It would be an edifying and moral science, which proceeds from a conviction that discovery of ignorance is good. This conviction would be knowledge if there some demonstration of its truth, and would be an unfounded opinion if no proof could be given. Whatever the dogma of Plato's theory of Ideas is, we have to ask whether Aristotle objects to anything false, or anything that has been presented to us by means of his works. For example, the eternal Good in the Ethics. "Nothing's any less white for being white for just a day." A lack of eternity wouldn't make something less of itself. Aristotle introduces a brilliant simplicity into reasoning. The categories, for example. It might be that Platonic works on logical procedures, and a sort of order of operations did not arrive to us. But isn't there enough from what we did get to say the sort of episteme that dialectic is? Never mind it's shortcomings! How do we know what the demonstration of the science has been, if we have not investigated its manner of demonstration. (Socrates in the Statesman. Mathematical training; unnamed speaker needing to keep his attention; recourse to symbols, images, and incomplete myths. How will anyone know the effect of a proof if they haven't studied geometry? Also, if they haven't studied a good geometrical proof? And to how many would there be something one cannot hope to have seen recorded and exemplified better in a particular bad proof! How should the art of dialectic be any different...?) And how will this knowledge be demonstrated? It seems that dialectic can't be learned as an art or a science from a few conversations. And there are many times we contradict ourselves, and find the most recent assertion made to be true. The dialogues always state a nominalistic problem to commence. What is justice, virtue, knowledge, etc. Geometry is the model for the success of nominalism. Names recall at once precise and perfectly general mental images, which very obviously relate the thinker the character of the imagined object. Furthermore, the procedure of construction of any named object is perfectly general. This is the meaning of the name as it appears in the geometrical terminology. Take a center, a distance, the resulting equilateral triangle, the conjugate diameter (of figure *A*), etc. The whole basis of Aristotle's categories results from the geometrical science. Great.

However, as Dougherty 




Dougherty's essay on the Statesman is crucial for us, as students of Socrates's and Plato's method of exposition of the political science. Socrates is a virile young man in the Statesman with a mathematical education. Mrs. Dougherty claims the dialogue shares formal similarities to other dialogues, and resembles the Meno. She makes a large distinction in that Socrates has had a mathematical education. Due to his mathematical education, Socrates will not claim to be true that which he wishes to be true -- unlike Meno. This is the basis of an investigation; yet Socrates still carries on a conversation with Meno in spite of the latter's present inability to suspend this habit of conviction. However, a great deal of time is spent on showing a mathematical proof. Socrates does not coerce Meno to do the construction of the proof, or even the deductive steps. In short, Meno is spared both the rehearsal, or at least, the cold-reading of the zetetic and poristic components of the proof (which I would do well to recall.) So the mathematical detour is crucial for the Meno dialogue, but we should remember that it ends up in the myth of Er, and that we end up talking about the immortality of the soul. We must account for the slave boy's knowledge. But the slave boy lacks skills of the geometrical science, as is shown when Socrates supplies the name the diagonal. Once this is declared as a term, the peculiarities of its ratio to the other parts of the whole can be investigated. Could this be the reverse of Meno's question? That is -- what is the diagonal? Or what is virtue? In this phrasing of the question, we have the object referred to in speech. But what exactly does it point to? There's only a clear answer in the geometrical version of the question. Nevertheless, we wouldn't think that there is no meaningful answer to the question on virtue. We simply have to encounter the "nominalistic bind" on firmer conceptual grounds. This is significant because Socrates is interested in Meno's question in his old age. This means that Naturally, this is He may not, however, be interested in an inconclusive investigation. It appears the political science, which is not (critikon -- logistic), but () is such a science. 
