# The United States
For Marx, the US is a perfected state since it doesn't prioritize or authorize any theological attitudes. The German state, for its explicit affinity for Christianity,is not complete because "there is no political state as such," since there is only a Christian state which has not cast off the skin of theology. France is equally incomplete, for the *semblance* of its affinity for Christian rule. Therefore, we have that human emancipation is delayed wherever the state has even the semblance of an affinity for one or another theological system. The superlative principle of unity is seen as creed, tribe, etc. -- and not the humanism of science. Therefore, human emancipation cannot neither be the active work of the state and its citizens, nor its eventual aim, so long as the theological principle of unity is preferred to the scientific one. The binding principle of science is human reason itself. Here the gap between the human and divine is bridged by reason, the most humanistic principle of unity. This is to be contrasted with the principle of theology, which sees only the need to subjugate the animal in man. Hence the state as theology, theology is wanting a state to implement the judgment of God.

What is political emancipation? Political emancipation is the perspective a state has on the emancipation of a human citizen. Political emancipation is a problem within a theologically-partial state.
itself with political emancipation, human emancipation is delayed. Human emancipation requires a principle to judge the subjects on a universal basis. Religion is the first authority which recognizes man's universal nature so it is fit for the principle of unity. This was mostly the case before 

Part of the authority the German state claims for itself is owed to veneration of its religious constitution. The French state is not saved from the same determination, since as a constitutional state,  for the *semblance* of its Christian allegiance. Human emancipation can be treated only by a secular state, because there is no (theological) principle that decides the Jewish question with priority. In the secular state, the principle of unity is science. Human reason is made to decide on all matters of emancipation -- allegiances are to be superseded by the most general rational principle. In this sense, the work of the secular state is human emancipation, because it enlists reason to decide on how to free *all* men. The work of the secular state which is freedom in its practice. the secular state goes beyond the particular and unifies man by what's general. The US doesn't make the treatment of religious groups a *theological* matter, but a human matter -- the right to practice what a human must. The state ostensibly claims no sympathy to any religion. Everybody admits that Christians are the dominant religion -- but many stray from the truth when they contrive a historical precedent for the unique protection of Christians. That is, Christians made their emancipation a matter of theological emancipation, which was never treated by non-secular states. This is why no progress is made. Since Christianity is the provisional state-sponsored religion, not *de jure* but *de facto*. As such, the resolution of all 'human-emancipation-matters' is postponed until we are decidedly agreed upon the precedence of a principle . One can't speak of the state without thinking of it being partial to Christian ethic and mores. This especially due to the development of terrorism as a theological matter. To bind the people of the US against the enemy, it was necessary to resort to a theological principle of opposition. As such, the US is no longer a perfected state, since it suspended its secular principles in order to unify an otherwise theologically-tolerant and secular, emancipated public. 

