# MY GOAL

I want to be an engineer, but my demon is skepticism. At this stage, I am so doubtful of the benefits that any study has to offer with respect to practical improvement. 

To be wise is to adore my demon as a gift (dora), since it is the negative form of my power of demonstration. Reason is a noble beast, and its dignity is demonstration; skepticism is its spur. To replace skepticism with firm audacity (avid--to want very much) resembles the field tracted/worked/plowed by the yoked ox. Every desire has its demon. Heaven or hell is the ensuing combat with the demon. Men are only incredulous of what has not been demonstrated to them.

Nature is the most impressive and accounts of it are easily demonstrable. I want demonstrable accuracy of my predictions about states of a system. Forces are deduced from motions upon definite bodies. 

arithmetic specification of the future state of the arithmetical parts of determinable systems.

# The relation of mathematics to doubt

Hegel C.(AA) : Emancipation of Spirit: Stoicism, then skepticism, then reason's self-observation.

We naturally doubt, and this runs rampant of its own accord.
Lessons from alcohol refine the doubt one ought to have. 
Ponderers, ostensibly descendants of alcoholics. 
Actors, the same.

Probability doesn't give a right to doubt. 
As treated here, Probability stands in no relation to beliefs.
The reason is beliefs influence behavior. 
A belief that it won't rain tomorrow is the permission that our sloth needs,
when we know we should cover the tractors, 

Allowing estimates to influence beliefs ultimately makes an interpretation of Probability moral.


When a precautionary measure is shirked upon report of low chances of its hazard's occurence,
we find prudence motivates valuable action,
while probability cuts costs.

The compensation Bayes offers allows for the odds to perpetually be changed,
but the Markov model is always the perfected new wager 

# Newton's introduction to the Principia

"The ancients, as Pappus wrote, made mechanics of the highest importance in the investigation of natural matters, and more recent writers, having dismissed substantial forms and occult qualities, have made an approach to referring the phenomena of nature back to mathematical laws. It has accordingly seemed fitting in this treatise to develop mathematics insofar as it looks to philosophy. Now the ancients etablished two branches of mechanics: rational, which proceeds accurately by demonstration, and practical." 

# The two branches of mechanics: rational and practical

Demonstration and construction are the two complementary activities of mechanics. Pappus identified the theorem and problem as the two distinct forms which could set the activities into productive opposition, so as to yield a proof of something sought (zetetic), or a happy accident occasioned by the construction (poristic). Where theorem and problem refer to the type of knowledge attained, Book 13 of the Elements shows in immediate succession the difference between the two modes of proof.

# Ancient : modern :: mechanic : philosopher

First, we must ask whether such revolutions in mathematics as Descartes's algebra, Vieta's invention of the exegetic/rhetic mode of relating magnitudes, are of use to us in investigating natural matters, or, if not, what the meaning of philosophy after Newton should take on in our mind. Mechanics is mathematical, but not inherently one branch of mathematics. Is mathematics a ramifying tree whose tips are taxa? then obtain an account as to the power of each of the branches to fulfill the resolution of problems or theorems. Does the leaf fit? Is there any knowledge which is unique to geometrical modes of reasoning? What meaning shall knowledge take on when one is certain of the reality both of the understanding and the cosmos? There is some thinking apparatus which knows exactly what it's in -- this is not reason, and this is not me, since I come to know myself, and maintain that the cosmos has not ceased to be itself in the time intervening. But it makes use of me. Where I knot, it flies. What is demonstration? Same in Newton and Euclid? And Leibniz, and Descartes?

"Reason is the certainty of consciousness that it is all reality." The eastern philosophers knew no less this unity of the cosmos though they did not have the hallmark of western thought: Freedom, product of Reason. It's for this reason that the knowing being is beyond both Reason and apperception. That is, knowledge is beyond the thinker, is continuous in time, where the thinker makes periodic efforts. Apperception surfaces periodically, and labours periodically. But the meaning of unity is never different. Consciousness as flux, Husserl's premise, creates problems that skirt around the fundamental issue of the soul's recollection. Stiegler's question in Epimetheus, Persephone: "Where are the eide?"

But maybe I'm being too harsh on Husserl. I have to see him in the continuum from Hegel onwards. Still, we should not think that we have treated terms with higher resolution when a Gordian knot involving those terms has not been undone.

Man the thinker can be made sense of with Kant's *a priori* intuitions of space and time. While, yes, we spatialize time the analogy suffices. We shall not talk about the infinities Blake has submitted to eternal (at least Ozymandian) review in the Marriage of Heaven and Hell. 
Where should the knowledge lie in relation to me, such that I can access it in moments, or receive intimations thereof? By what means could the knowledge possibly be communicated if it resembles recollection? To treat of man the knower, we must deal with eternity. To talk of man the thinker, a stopwatch suffices. 

The unity underlying thought -- the omnitudo realitatis -- is the absolute, is the axis by which the movements of thought coordinate themselves. This unity cannot, however, aptly be spatialized. It has continuity in common with isometric space, however. Time in its isometric nature ensures this continuity, which is a spatial continuity, in the same way that the first three Euclid propositions establish the continuity of a two-dimensional plane. The problem of spatial continuity arises out of the projection of the z-axis ---- which z-axis is the correct one? How many vanishing points can there be, and how many valid orthogonals to the x-y plane? We are thrown into reality which we accept before the mind can marvel at 'its' ingenuity in interpreting it. The thinker has only a faculty in view at a time, and requires a spatially arranged system processing reality in synchronized sequence to make Similarly, 

In other words, man the thinker is not a problematic category. It's self-evident that man comes to himself. The truth of the proposition: "Je pense, donc je suis" dawns on him. It's man the knower which is problematic. For a fundamental quality of knowledge (which, by the way, Drucker does not appreciate in his positivist, and therefore necessarily shallow, view of philosophy) is that *one must think it*. Knowledge which is not thought is not knowledge. Therefore, knowledge is the result of a periodic function of consciousness -- thought. To convert knowledge into thought is the first action which can be taken with respect to *potential* knowledge. The potential knowledge arrives as actual knowledge in a thought. A thought is the result of the contemplative act, which we have said is a periodic function of time. After having been converted into *actual* knowledge,  man can *operate* with it. *This* is the fundamental meaning of the distinction between episteme and techne. In a purely general manner employing Kantian terms, To think what can be known is Kantian terms, to synthesize the manifold of intuition according to some unifying principle which relates a thought to the apperception by means of the imagination. Because the manifold of intuition has never changed, the *knowledge* was always possible. However, the thought which converts the knowledge into actuality is not always possible, if it is some special product of thought which, just as specially, wrangles together the manifold of intuition into a unity (related to the imagination). Therefore, the best practice of the techne is not always available. but now has been conceptually fixed into signs, or terms, or a schesis, the manifold of intuition is resolved into an identity, which is fixed by a concept (or some combination of a number of them). Children can differentiate animals without meaningfully describing their differences. And furthermore, kids will be about as good as biologists in distinguishing genera. But not species, obviously, since even intelligent adults reading the Origin of Species will spare themselves the effort of developing the eye Darwin required to distinguish species. 

Evaluating the meaning of one's knowns/propositions is part of the technical art. This is what allows a fruitful conversation in Lachterman to emerge from considering Euclid's "prudence" in laying out the order of the propositions.

# Peter F. Drucker's "The Rise of the Knowledge Society"
Drucker makes a mess of learning. Learning is an activity which takes place in time. He extracts no meaning from the distinction of the ancients between episteme and techne. What is to be done, and therefore, how it is to be done, is a problem which the 'knowledge-worker' has to solve. Drucker makes ants of bees: Aristotle's Ethics can be charged with uselessly and ambiguously amassing pure knowledge only by the fact that Aristotle's techne has decided to preserve man's freedom to choose what way of life is worthiest. This choice is part of Aristotle's techne. His aim of preserving the height of man's freedom should be accomplished only if he allows it its full berth to experiment the bounds of the argument. The skill of the Ethics is to form the one who follows the argument. The learner is one who has *freely* chosen to acquire the knowledge, and ostensibly for some end. Because the Ethics always distinguishes between master arts and subordinate arts, and shows the interrelation of ends, we must suspect that Aristotle has in view the highest end and function of a learner. It is with a view to this ultimate good of acquiring knowledge that Aristotle has organized the argument, for otherwise, the work would be incomplete. To suspect such perfection of man, however, is unfashionable, so Drucker can hardly be blamed. Therefore, the general art of techne, which would make one a skillful and *good* (agathos) practitioner of *any* art whatsoever, has already been advanced by the structure of the argument. This means that the concept of the good does not fall to knowledge, as Aristotle himself argues Plato would have it, but that it instead belongs to techne. "What does it mean if it's not a human good?" It's naive to depict the ancients as honeybees of knowledge. At least, while neglecting what flowers they have pollinated.

In modernity, without such a meaningful distinction between the two activities (contemplation and techne) which make knowledge into a good, or which hold knowledge to account in the realization of a good, the meaning of time in thinking is unclear. It is no wonder that thought struggles to justify itself as meaningful in modernity. With this, we have the possibility that the value of intellectual labour in contemplation should become subject to a negative appraisal. But if thought cannot succeed in establishing how it makes the realization of the good possible, it should only be consistent that the realization of the good does not belong to thought. Therefore, it only follows that, because it's only natural that we want the good, and reason has no business in realizing it, the hedonistic way of life ends up being the best. The attitude which makes the evaluation of contemplation impossible justifies itself in the immediacy of pleasure *only*. One would instead only ever feel the cost of contemplation, and never suspect that it inaugurates some good otherwise unattainable. Therefore, the only solution to the problem of hedonism is to define the good, which is known to be the best by reason, as something which man's agonies, energies, and deeds (agonia, energeiai, pragma) can realize in accord with reason. For the good is known by reason to be the best of all things. The question on which Plato and Aristotle meaningfully differ, however, is whether the good is a matter of episteme, or a matter of techne. As has already been covered, Aristotle's argument in the Ethics is that the good belongs to the technical art.

To solve the problem of the good requires that we bring it into the domain of reason. Since reason has two moments/aspects, there are two ways to solve the problem: can we know the good? The good belongs to reason either on the epistemic side, or on the technical side. To make the good a possession of reason by making it knowable in itself, and not something skillfully manifested/realized | revealed/brought forth (deiknumi, fio), now ensnares action in a similar problem to our earlier problem of the good. Contemplation can appraise the good, and contemplation is therefore good. If, to solve the problem of hedonism, which is the primitive solution to nihilism, we pose that the act of contemplating the good in itself is *the* superlative good, then we require that one be actively contemplating the good in order to experience it. Therefore, the *only* good is contemplation, which by its nature is inaction. Therefore, action, the other half of the rational animal, loses its value and meaning. 

This is the primitive solution to the problem of hedonism, which marvels at man the knower. The dignity of the slave boy is the dignity of the immortal soul. The knavishness of Meno is his ignorance to this wellspring of his soul's riches. The good is available to man's reason by contemplation. Contemplation requires aporia. Yet to define the good as the contemplation of it in-itself makes it an eternal, unchanging form, as is only consistent with the theory of the eternal soul. However, saying that the domain of the good in reason is the knowledge of it in-itself makes a problem of time, struggle, history, and the meaning of man the thinker. That is, the view of the good which Aristotle in Book I argues that Plato poses is that the contemplative life improves the hedonistic solution to the nihilistic problem by making thought the good. As such, the naive resolution of what Plato has accomplished in the Socratic dialogues doesn't appreciate thought as a technical act, and requires the eternal to dignify man. I say a naive resolution, since Socrates's silence is a meaningful act in the Timaeus (the worthy). This is a technical decision, whose importance Aristotle emphasizes by his hierarchy of arts and their ends. 

To make contemplation of the good-in-itself the good makes the possibility of having a master and subordinate art impossible. In other words, the hierarchy and bifurcation of arts which Aristotle starts with is itself the solution to the problem of the ambiguity of action, and the rightful establishment of the good as in the domain of techne. If the good can be experienced simply through bringing it into conscious awareness, the realization of the good should be exclusively the result of thought and noetic acts. Thus the expense of energies (Blake's Hell) is spiritualized as low, since the good is in the domain of knowledge. But because man is a rational animal, his good is already decided to be in knowledgeable action, rational action. There's no animal whose good consists in inaction, man is an animal, therefore, man's good does not consist in inaction. And its converse?inverse?: For all animals, the good consists in action which leads to its end, man is an animal, therefore, man's good consists in action which leads to his end. Man is a rational animal, and the technical aspect of reason decides which ends one ought to follow (and in what way), therefore, the technical expression of man's actions which aim at some good *is* the good. 

When posed with the meaninglessness of man's life, Plato shows that there is one action that is good: the contemplation of the good in itself. This is because the good is known to reason, and undeniably so. (Allegory of the Cave). It is thus that the unexamined life is not worth living. What is good is the contemplation of the good-in-itself, which establishes itself to reason as clearly as the sun's light to the eyes. Contemplation of the inner sun, the good, is the reflexivity of the act of examination. It is the joy of seeing clearly. This is the criterion of Descartes's later innovations in defining ta mathemata -- are they beheld with the natural light, clearly and distinctly? 

That the good is known to reason is the shared foundation of Plato and Aristotle. Both philosophers use this to solve the problem of nihilism. Aristotle differs from Plato in saying that the good emerges in time as an experienced good, not by the contemplation of it, but by the technical management of its realization. Techne, being the organ of instrumentality, alone creates a cogent hierarchy of the diverse goods to which arts seemingly tend. "The good would be as numerous as there are arts..." Yet the art of politics emerges as the supreme good, since it enables the practice of all other arts. It is the master art. Just like politics skillfully creates the conditions for the emergence of many goods, techne enables the appearance of any good whatsoever. It is *the* master art. For, in the first place, it's the proper management of the contemplative act ("to start from the judges in a footrace or end at the judges") which enables knowledge to be good. An ill-managed pursuit of knowledge reaps beliefs that lack an account. Certainty is a quality of all perfect products of reasoning. Uncertain knowledge is not rational to the human good, because actions in accord with it are not guaranteed to promote the happiness/eudamonia of the rational animal (which is what man is). Therefore techne, which is similar to the political art of managing, is what in fact enables the possibility of knowledge's virtue: conclusions/opinions that can be held to account | certainty that accords with logos.

Techne is the faculty that distinguishes practitioners of any art whatsoever, since their episteme may be the same. Therefore, the domain of the good is in techne. It's this choice which restores the meaning of action. This is also not inconsistent with the premise that the life of contemplation is the highest life. This is because the life of contemplation enables one to most skillfully manage the good's realization. This also makes one's progress through time meaningful. The good does not reside in man the knower, which is the nihilistic interpretation of man's being -- but in man the thinker (who *acts* in thought). "Thoughts are actions--" Nietzsche writes in the Late Notebooks.

Back to Drucker. He lacks this distinction in episteme and techne, and thus, can't properly adopt Aristotle's solution to the nihilstic problem. He cannot, say, either, what the meaning of knowledge is, and how it relates to the good. He might say that progress is good, and knowledge subordinate to progress, making the hierarchy "goods emblematic of the most novel expression of power" > "knowledge enabling its form and function" > "history".

In reading his Rise of the Knowledge Society, I lose all bearing on how to evaluate contemplation, its products, the meaning of the act. How would he answer "How much of what type of thinking is required to advance **x** discipline, **y** category of knowledge?" As is natural to a positivist, he takes progress as the highest good, and in a Panglossian manner, for granted. Man makes progress, therefore it's in the nature of man to make progress. But this understanding that neglects causes of a *single* advancement neglect the material conditions for any innovation, any opportunism. It is due to a *techne* of a certain caliber that the tools available in plain day to all man find some use. Prometheus gives fire to man. In Drucker's view, Prometheus's prison makes no sense. When we consider that techne still lives in the contemplative life, in the realm of inaction, we might see what the meaning of the daily consumption of forethought's liver means. Not all ingenuity can be found in reflex. And does this not *cost* a lot? To remove the distinction between episteme and techne, and to make knowledge simply a matter of *doing* suggests that one knows what one ought to do in the very moment that they know *how* to do. No wonder we figure out how to make more money off of personal vehicles before considering the damage to the planet. "Why wouldn't we? Wouldn't you?"

But, let's not get caught up too much in the garb of nihilism; this is just more of the *news* of the day to which philosophers are naturally averse. (Why I Write Such Good Books)

As we can see, the adoption of Plato's view of the good's domain was of political benefit to rulers. It is not a mistake that Aristotle's works were lost. Yet there's enough in Plato's works to show that techne is what allows them to attain their height. In Phaedrus: Socrates, the heavy fruit baring himself openly to Phaedrus, his interlocutor, beneath the Platanos tree, tests whether his seed, the good of his love, can reach his consenting student. Why should a man be ashamed if he's shamelessly baring himself? He reveals his desire not to be a midwife this time, but its opposite -- after all, they're outside of the city. This image is the basis for showing the fundamental equality of eros and philosophy in their situation; they are both ashamed of the good that they want to realize in the other, their potentially receptive beloved/interlocutor. Likewise, in the Timaeus, Socrates is listening the entire time, but says nothing. Either we're missing the third part of the dialogue with Socrates's response, or the dialogue has skipped to the final form it typically takes: the mythical account of man's cosmic situation. This makes Socrates's choice to share a myth with his interlocutor gain a hitherto unanticipated meaning. We cannot entirely do away with myths by decrying their persuasiveness as illegitimate, since they're an arrangement of the ideas which do have a meaning, however unexaminable. If we were to lose the ability to evaluate these in service of the dialogue, we'd also lose the ability to view eros in service of philosophy, myth in service of philosophy, irony and poetry in service of philosophy. Still, Plato might display convictions that poetry is a higher art than philosophy (at times). These questions cannot be resolved, let alone caught sight of, without an appraisal of techne. With what *skill* can a knowledgeable person expect to pass on the good of the truth, if not by what is commonly human, and what is immediately available? 

We can also talk about Euclid's prudence in teaching by the same token. In short -- to talk of the accomplishments of the ancients is to talk about their appraisal of techne, and its place in the realization of the good for man. 

It's with a view to techne that Kant's Categorical Imperative gains its ripest, sweetest meaning. If the good were to reside exclusively in the terrain of the metaphysical, we could see how acts would be good *only* in respect of the category that they belong to. But clearly there's a conflict between the ethical obligation to the family and to one's conscience -- telling the truth to the serial killer is unconscionable. We might ask whether it's not some techne on Kant's behalf which frames the Categorical Imperative knowledgably, with this as its backdrop, to show whether it's acceptable or not. Therefore, the Categorical Imperative is not something that *ought* to be followed, in the way of a moral commandment. Kant has not discovered some principle which *should* be compelling "but, ultimately unacceptable." This is to understand that Kant discovered the Categorical Imperative not, as I see it, an independent faculty in man, but one disposed to serve the naive-Platonic description of the good's domain within reason. In other words, to maintain the meaningfulness of man's actions, and his ability to freely act towards the good, such as the breast instructs, . Rather Kant is showing that the Categorical Imperative is the nature of man's obedience, the nature of his willfulness. It is therefore also a condition of his freedom -- he can be unerringly consistent. For we cannot accept the validity of the Categorical Imperative and maintain that the good cannot be known. If the good is its own contemplation, then we enter the flagrant contradiction between the ethical obligation to the family and the inviolability of the lie. The lie is a pet example blown out of proportion which most precisely shows the power of the Categorical Imperative to govern man's behavior. I wouldn't be surprised if Daniel Day-Lewis employed the Categorical Imperative in his method acting. It's the easiest way to constrain the behaviors and attitudes which a man, with any degree of rationality or stubbornness, will unerringly uphold. It is the fact of consistency given before man is free to technically arrange his own ends and means. Because of the Categorical Imperative's discovery, we see that man's freedom is in accord with reason. Man, even ignorant and base man, takes actions which are rational, in that the behavior belongs to a category which a man will either bring into being or refuse to bring into being. 

Hegel also says some stuff about the way Reason tests laws, and eventually defeats itself in the Phenomenology, but I can't really remember what's going on there. Up until now, however, it's clear to see that all of the philosophers brought up so far, perhaps with the exception of Descartes, depending on one's reading of his ambiguity and contradictions, are aligned with Aristotle's conception of the good as being within the domain of techne rather than knowledge.

# Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics

Sort out:
1. The Ideal Good is not the Supreme Good.
2. The Supreme Good is politics. (What meaning does the word politics have here? Who can, and who must manifest the supreme good? To whom is the practice of the art available, and for whom is it required to continue advancing it? And finally, how should we advance the ends of this art, promote its good? )
3. Is politics akin to techne? (Since, if so, techne might be the Supreme Good which manages all. On the surface, these 'rulers' both require moderation and justice for the good to appear in what they rule. We might even say that the best good appears with the four: moderation, justness, prudence, courage. But this is outside of the argument in the Ethics.)

With the first sentence of the Ethics, the nature of the human being's action is spoken for in advance. With it, our fate is sealed: the good *is* aimed at already in every human endeavor. Everything which is a decidedly human action has the good as its intention. The goal, or end of the good, is thankfully not a stagnant ideal which can be known without the context of human action.

This is an argument for the needfulness of the art of techne.
Aristotle's definition of the good as something humanly achievable implies a master art to manage the good, and bring it about. For if there is no art which Techne is  The reason we cannot categorically will the good, and hence bring our behavior always into accord with the good, is that there is no way to define the idea of the good. (Invoke complications in I. vi) It seems that the willable good is not a category in the sense that lying is. Obviously, where one lies, one cannot tell the truth. Lying is a definite category of action. 

# Descartes's revolution

Descartes's geometry on first glance seems simply to assign ciphers to geometrical magnitudes. In doing this, the generality of a proposition is freed from spatial representation. This is notably preserved in the form of a^2+b^2=c^2. This is not demonstrated by algebra, since the theorem refers to a certain class of geometrical object. Algebra is logistice speciosa, logistics without need for figures and doodles. One can be sure of the equality of figures if their ciphers are shown to be equal by some valid manipulation. You can get an identity you want with fewer penstrokes by logistice speciosa than by geometrical construction. But does algebra have any propositions? Or would it not be equally well-disposed to work with Lobachevskian geometry as with Euclidean geometry? Yeah -- it really just comes down to the definition of the identities.
