# Abstract: What enables empirical inference? Descartes, Hobbes, MGS
Today, it is taken for granted that man has power over nature. The form of this power is of intelligent (sapient) relation to nature, enabled by Descartes's method (which I speculate is in Ad Regulae Directionam Ingenii-Rules for the Direction of the Mind). Venom Snake as homo sapiens, who is necessarily ignorant of himself, though he can fulfill operational objectives with high precision. This man's power is alienated from his own musculature, i.e., is disembodied; the political implications of this are made abundantly vivid by Hideo Kojima: The disembodied reason requires the use of a machine (Skull Face's Sahelanthropus, Miller's Venom Snake, Cipher's Miller, Cipher's Jack) in proportion with the will of this disembodied reason (Sahelanthropus to Skull Face, mediated by Tretij Rebenok). Sahelanthropus is the "commonwealth" of Skull Face as pure reason, Tretij Rebenok its spirit and regulator. The domain of this excellence is noetical. As concerns the activity of pure reason, it operates quite unremarkably -- or *regularly*. To account for the awesome power of man the knower, we must look, instead, to the awesome concept-body by which he models any possible experience of nature. The promised meaning of the propositions admitted into modern science is that they predict any possible experience. Based on the industrialization of science, there will never be a mia episteme which accounts for all aspects of experience -- the ideology governing our world since the Cold War haunts us still: certain imperialist countries must maintain political supremacy in order for life itself to persist on this planet. Thus the division and un-democratization of science is mandated for the sake of political sustainability; we cannot tolerate our enemies to know the world. Even widespread advances of science among the American public would generate such a rapid pace of discoveries, resulting from such simple and intuitive experiments, that any human, from any country whatsoever, would easily inherit this ever-burgeoning layman-knowledge. Open-source is still rarified, and software developers are haughty; they would like for their wage to be "earned." As stated above, the operations of pure reason are unremarkable in these individuals: they are no unique animal species. They are not distinct animals, but economically selected species. The possibility of American consumerism, which relies on the interdependence of specialized industries, would be dismantled and severely hampered. In the interest of maintaining imperialist supremacy, the average American must remain unscientific. In the interest of the specialized industries who claim an empiricaly legitimated logistical power, this mass uneducation must also persist. Many products only interest people because they would like to spare themselves the rigors of judgment. This noetic apparatus is a theory of experience which enables practical logistics. Once the quanta identical with an experience of nature are articulated in a causal schema, the use of Peirce's Law of Pragmatism is enabled (though its validity far exceeds the scope of arithmetically validated chains of inference). Pure reason is always able to specify, *a priori*, the necessarily valid inference-products from any axioms whatsoever. The applicability of an *a priori* inference chain to the experience of the world requires use of an axiomatically regulated coordinate system -- physics has made use of that space which follows from the Euclidean axioms. It is shown that, no matter how "unintuitive" the concepts of a geometrical science, say, Lobachevsky's, pure reason is unhampered in specifying the necessary conclusion. This is the ground of Poincare's claim that a geometry is nothing but a set of customs. This operation of pure reason is carried out always doggedly; i.e., independently of the special determinations (definitions, or axioms, or "customs") which regulate, by means of concepts, the special form of the valid inference. That the mind always follows the character of valid inference is compellingly argued by Peirce in "Some Consequences of Four Incapacities".
Empirical inference of quantified effect is enabled by the quantification of causes. We must avail ourselves of arithmetical (arithmetikos:[number-like]) noetic forms in experimental philosophy. Though certain tenets, or laws of physics are not necessarily articulated numerically (arithmos), they are the constant form of a proportion arithmetically attested to.

# Karl Popper's definition of science
A science is a body of falsifiable propositions which never contradict each other. To the science of physics, culminating in the theory of special relativity, is added: "...each other, or any possible experience." See "Einstein interlude!"

# In general (but how general?)
All propositions of experimental philosophy are arithmetically verified: they depend on the quantization of causes and their necessarily ensuing, quantized effects. All use of proportion depends on arithmetical, or number-like, thinking -- not necessarily on numbers themselves! (1) Laws of physics are the constant and general form of the proportion between numbers, whose source in experience is qualitatively classified. The scope of a law is established by qualifying the objects which it regulates. The only meaning of modern science is that the mathematical, arithmetic objects its quantification of causes *underlying* world-objects result in empirically valid inferences. falsifiable propositions which have not yet been contradicted, and which do not contradict each other. 

1. Hence the current widespread use of complex and imaginary numbers in the disciplines of science. 

# What enables inference?
How does Kant account for the possibility of *a priori* science?  From A 115: "There are three subjective soures of knowledge upon which rests the possibility of experience in general and of knowledge of its objects--sense, imagination and apperception. Each of these can be viewed as empiircal, namely, in its application to given appearances. But all of them are likewise *a priori* elements or foundations, which make this empirical empoyment itself possible. *Sense* represents appearances empirically in *perception*, *imagination* in *association* (and reproduction), *apperception* in the *empirical conciousness* of the identity of the reproduced representations with the appearances whereby they were given, that is, in recognition." From this he (eventually) derives the conceptual unity of apperception, which, because of its deduced validity *a priori*, is necessarily valid for any possible experience of the world. In keeping with the determinations of Kant's work, Peirce proves that the mind always follows the character of producing a valid inference. 


# To prove

The validation of an empirical proposition is an analytic judgment. "Yes, I judge that this experience is X." Here, X is a concept-body, identical with a given synthesis of the manifold in intuition. All empirical propositions are analytic of any possible experience. though the judgment is a copula between the self and the manifold, synthesized in a concept.

# Einstein interlude!
This itself is an act regulated by Newton's fourth rule for reasoning in philosophy: "In experimental philosophy, propositions gathered from the phenomena by induction *are to be taken as true*, whether exatly or approximately, contrary hypotheses notwithstanding, until other phenomena appear through which they are either rendered more accurate or liable to exceptions. This must be done lest an argument from induction be nullified by hypotheses." 
"...rendered more accurate:" the correction of Maxwell's value for the velocity of light determined by the findings of Michelson and Morley. "...liable to exceptions:" the use of Lorentz transformations to maintain the inductive validity of the body of science, which utilizes the Galilei-Newton coordinate system for spacetime, since: the quanta resulting from measurement of a phenomenon visible to two coordinate systems, one "remote" and the other "local", at some light-distance, contradict. Since the Galilei-Newton coordinate-system holds good for "local" (I am ignorant of the light-distance necessarily implied by this use of local) empirical predictions, we *mustn't* throw it out.

