# Polarity, opposition, reproduction

Reading pp.164 in Reason. He talks of the strength of a magnet as the result of its two poles, or in no way separated from the manifestation of both its poles' force. The grammar here hardly needs to be corrected for "respective forces," since, come on, it's Hegel. I wanted to talk of the **virtus** of a relationship (which leads, incidentally, to reproduction) by way of the polarity exhibited. If you're looking for the strength of a relationship, you might externally judge the faces of masculine and feminine as they show themselves in the relationship, *socially*: the hair, clothing, --> everything that can be called wardrobe or costume. We want the dynamic of energeiai, of deeds. Are there "erga" in romance which are universally applicable? 

# Deeds in masculine and feminine
Just like for a magnet, the power of a love lies in its polar expression. This is its reality. The two poles that manifest the *virtus* of a love are the masculine and feminine, or the more generally applicable top and bottom. I'd be very excited to see even greater stable mutability in a relationship of two verses... but I haven't been so lucky as to recognize this first-hand (if I did witness it). Eventually, we'll stick to the latter terms, both to ruffle a few feathers, and to stand a fighting chance at identifying universals. But first we start with the masculine-feminine dynamic, since it is well-recognized socially; we can see across the history of the dynamic's social presentation, which gestures find life *in which unions*, and in which the gestures are devoid of real emotion. Cosmopolitan front-cover "how-to-spice-it-up" blurbs are of small interest; we can infer that their frequently recurrence on the magazine front shows that they offer no successful, final strategies. Whether should a strategy exists might be the natural conclusion of this, our investigation.

So, let's start with the deepest cliche of all time: the "star-crossed lovers," Romeo and Juliet. The virtus of Romeo and Juliet is from the outset a cosmic incommensurability, and sidereal doom. Balance and measure enter as rational concepts of the play, from such conversations as the courtyard flirting: (crystal scales that are the beloved's eyes...) Scales here do not measure social justice, but the polar balance of the love which is manifested by their mutual opposition in their respective amorous circumstances: (where Romeo pursues Rosalind, Juliet flees Paris). This circumstantial opposition is then nullified by their love. The balance of the scales is a temporal balance that the lovers find in one another. The "tragedy's" ending might be itself due to a misunderstanding of time, and temporal balance. The lack of clarity that we should have about the origin of desire -- whether from de-sudor(hydro) i.e., sweat, or from the stars (de-sideiros). 

We speak naturally by saying desire is both the celestial and the carnal, the beyond mixed with the too-here. It is coy to favor one or the other etymology, when both constitute its reality. If you haven't gotten lost in time with a lover, you should branch out a bit. Now if we accept as a general premise that we are conscious of something at the expense of our ignorance (Oedipus, contradiction as a law of the unconscious in Bachelard's *Psychoanalysis of Fire*)


For a full appreciation of this, we would have to do an analysis of ritual, magic, ceremony as it exists in a primitive state. But we're probably on the right track, since many festivals have to do with fertility, sport.

In other w


 as empty, non-vital, un-polar -- has an entire history ripe  away the social mores and even examine where the deeds and tasks which are expected socially (exigencies of romantic mores?)
