# What is engineering?
It is an art of creating the future. Civic engineering, for example, is the art of building things for long-term habitation and use. Planned obsolescence is nothing but a subset of financial engineering, which secures the future of a company through viewing purchases as a periodic phenomenon, whose frequncy must be increased. The appreciation of the future of an artifice is what guides an engineer's development of it. The formal mathematical apparatus which engineering makes use of is of supreme importance in making it a social, political activity. The hermit-inventor might not require the thinking-apparatus of formal mathematics to innovate at all -- but he would be able to employ only himself. For labor to progress more quickly in time, we add as a coefficient, the number of workers who know the physical, pragmatic meaning of *our* units of measurement. Humans need to objectify experience itself so as to construct it socially. The audacity of good engineering rests in its certainty of effects. What does an invention look like in its mathematical form?

# The validity of assertions made by physics
Physics is necessarily mathematical, since it must be intelligible to men. In this sense an equation is true if it is perfectly (thoroughly & generally) intelligible. This is why we haven't had to change the formal tools of mathematics so as to treat the atomic realm; our formal apparatus of ciphers to manipulate rational identities is already the general form of validity. Therefore the many (experiences) become one (form). Where nature is man's understanding, mathematics is his rational enunciation of it; therefore the mathematical form of experience is the world. It is both rational and intellible, since the world is both. Grant me that reason operates identically in all men (we can go to Euclid for this.). The corpus built by the understanding ( knowledge(?) ) in two men is not identical, but the intuitions excited by any schemas are, because the former are given a priori. By this we have to ask: how does formal mathematics determine the understanding? The perfection of a tool is its suitability in general. (Multi-tools are perfect.) There are trade-offs with all materials, but the mind has some tools which are perfect, like ciphers, which will never fail to be applicable.

# The micro-physical's requirement of statistical descriptions; why is formal mathematics sufficient for the description of these phenomena? Cartesian cipher
Anyone after Boltzmann and Schrodinger has to admit that the action of atoms can be described only by statistical accounts, and not deterministic ones. So the axiomatic system which Newton proposes is viable only for that position between two infinities which man occupies. The smaller infinity requires description of a statistical nature, and the larger is fully unknown. It's somewhat strange that formal mathematics has not undergone any significant change in describing atomic entities -- since maybe we have got to the bottom of imaginability with our mathematics. The Platonic union of eikasia (image-recognition) with the noeta was a powerful error which guides the Galileian and Newtonian accounts of the world. Reason is independent from the understanding; The power of reason to continue unhampered in its operation, where the understanding fails to make sense of reason's operands, might be owed to the ready adaptation of magnitudes to ciphers demonstrated in Descartes's La Geometrie. 


# Evaluation of propositions both Boolean and statistical
How should I evaluate the truth of a statistical proposition? Barring some ingenious demonstration of a coin's *actual* preference to land on one of its sides, I should rest most surely on the description that the odds are 50/50. If I should get observe a different proportion in one trial -- is my description of the coin as a 50/50 object false? Then I should be a 50/50 Clown. It seems that the sense of True and False is reserved only for binary, deterministic entities, like events, qualities, and quantities. Hence classical mechanics is Boolean, and statistical mechanics non-Boolean. We call the predictive power of the former deterministic, and the predictive power of the latter statistical. Given that the "veracity" of a statistical proposition has an entirely obfuscated meaning, we might finally abandon this mode of sounding out physics. For as we showed earlier, formal (cipher-using) mathematics, inherited from Descartes, undergoes no change in its treatment of the atomic, or micro-physical realm. Quantum physics observes phenomena which are necessarily, to our understanding, non-deterministic. To bring up Tolstoy's second epilogue to War and Peace, always apt in these discussions, free will is an illusion of the microscopic, and determinism an illusion of the macroscopic. To attribute regularity to nature is to inhabit the macroscopic, to attribute chaos and perpetual swerve is to inhabit the microscopic. What the hell was Lucretius on??? What is the Kantian account of formalization of experience? Do schemas relate intuitions to concepts? The schema of four is not the image of four, but rather is the method by which I can attain four, as a concept. 

# Hypotheses non fingo
When Newton says: hypotheses non fingo -- what does he mean? I need to know the context of this statement if I'm to advance my writing on this topic, since he proposes a mathematical method which is not hypothetical, but descriptive of the phenomena. He doesn't make stoicheic/atomistic claims, as far as I can tell, and this is what I naively take to be the meaning of hypotheses non fingo. He does not admit to the reader in the scholium to the definitions that he has faith that absolute space and time are *real.* In that sense, we forgive his "error" which is rendered only from the standpoint of special relativity. 
